---
title: SIGCSE Annual Report 2008
layout: page
---

July 2007 - June 2008\
Submitted by: Barbara Boucher Owens, SIGCSE Chair

**SIGCSE Executive Board**

<table class="table table-sm">
<tbody>
    <tr><td valign="top"><strong>Chair</strong><br />
Barbara Boucher Owens
<p><strong>Vice-Chair</strong><br />
Alison Young</p>
<p><strong>Secretary</strong><br />
Daniel Joyce</p>
<p><strong>Treasurer</strong><br />
Ren√©e McCauley
</p></td>
<td valign="top"><strong>Board Members</strong><br />
Doug Baldwin<br />
Wanda Dann<br />
Ingrid Russell
<p><strong>Editor-in-Chief</strong><br />
John Impagliazzo (Board Participant)</p>
<p><strong>Past Chair</strong><br />
Henry M. Walker
</p></td>
</tr></tbody></table>

Many, many thanks to all members of the previous Board whose excellent
work made my first year easier.

**Membership**\
Historically, SIGCSE has had a very loyal membership. Recent initiatives
to attract more members seem to be connecting well with many in the
computing community. At the end of the 2008 fiscal year (the last year
for which we have complete data), SIGCSE had 2671 members, an increase
of 85 members over the previous year, with strong gains in both
professional and affiliate members against a 50 member decrease in
subscriber only category. Approximately 54% of the one-year members have
renewed, but 84% of those who had been members for at least 2 years have
renewed, showing a loyal membership. However, we are not resting on our
laurels. The membership committee of the Board is looking at ways to (1)
increase membership, (2) improve communication with members,
particularly new ones, and (3) improve publicity and visibility of
SIGCSE.

**Awards**\
Each year, SIGCSE gives awards to those who have been particularly
helpful to the computer-science-education community. SIGCSE gives two
awards annually, both officially at the Technical Symposium which was
held in March in Portland, Oregon. The Outstanding Educator award was
given to Randy Pausch, who due to illness was unable to give the opening
address. That talk was delivered jointly by Dennis Cosgrove and Wanda
Dann of the Carnegie Mellon Alice team. The SIGCSE Award for Lifetime
Service was presented to Dennis Frailey.

**Conference Highlights**\
In 2007-2008, SIGCSE sponsored 3 main conferences: the Technical
Symposium, the summer ITiCSE conference and the September/October the
ICER research workshop. The SIGCSE Technical Symposium and the Digital
Library revenues continue to generate additional revenue to support our
many endeavors.

Our homegrown online submission and reviewing system for the technical
symposia has streamlined the process and allowed reviewing to involve
all interested SIGCSE members. Most papers for the Symposium and ITiCSE
are now sent to six reviewers, giving significant input to Program
Committees, and both submitters and reviewers can view the reviews of
their papers after acceptance decisions are made. With over 1000
reviewers in the SIGCSE conference databases, some variation among
reviews can be expected, and conference leadership and the SIGCSE Board
are exploring how to best utilize reviewers and promote consistency.

A subcommittee of the SIGCSE Board spent much of July through October
2007 considering refinements to the reviewing process and much of their
work was incorporated into the process for both the 2008 and now the
2009 Technical Symposium process as well as that for ITiCSE. There is
much work to be done in this arena, and the Board is considering more
intensive revisions as well as the possibility of utilizing outside
software such as Easy Chair.

SIGCSE 2008 was remarkably successful, with very strong attendance and a
healthy surplus to support other SIGCSE programs (without raising
conference fees). This year\'s Co-Chairs, John Dougherty (Haverford
College) and Susan Rodger (Duke University) were incredible. John began
a very effective blog about the conference and issues surrounding
computing education. .This led to the broader consideration of using a
blog for discussion of the management of SIGCSE in general. Susan was
particularly effective in working with all personnel surrounding the
conference, from the Board to the vendors. Our first ever Kids? Camp at
the Symposium blended a childcare service with efforts to engage the
next generation with computing. Children attending the camp wrote
programs in both Scratch, the new graphical, multimedia language from
MIT as well as in Alice.

Special thanks are due the 2008 Program Committee, led by Program
co-chairs Sue Fitzgerald and Mark Guzdial who will be chairs of the 2009
Technical Symposium in Chattanooga. Additional keynote speakers at the
conference were Marissa Mayer of Google who excited the audience with
the potential for development of new applications and Ed Lazowska of the
University of Washington who talked about the past, present and future
of computing and emphasized that we must \"identify the challenges that
will shape the intellectual future of the field, challenges that will
catalyze research investment and public support and those that will
attract the best and brightest minds of a new generation.\"

SIGCSE\'s 2008 summer conference on Innovation and Technology in
Computer Science Education was held in Madrid. This conference\'s
attendance met or exceeded previous records (final numbers are pending);
these numbers were incredible in spite of a falling dollar and increased
expenses. Fine, daily, keynotes were given by Wendy Hall (Southampton
University) who emphasized the interdisciplinary nature of a web
permeated world and its impact on education, just days before she
assumed the presidency of the ACM, by Philip D. Long of MIT and Roger
Boyle of Leeds., Wonderful conference leadership came from Conference
Co-Chairs Cary Laxer (Rose-Hulman) and June Amillo (Universidad
Politecnica Madrid). June was especially effective in recruiting a
top-notch team of local folks whose flexibility and creativity made the
conference run smoothly.

The relatively new International Computing Education Conference (ICER)
began through the vision and guidance of Richard Anderson, Sally
Fincher, and Mark Guzdial. New leadership has begun for ICER conferences
starting in 2008, and work is underway to help the transition from one
leadership team to the next. The 2007 conference held in Atlanta at
Georgia Tech was an outstanding success. The team had budgeted for a
conference attendance of 36 and was thrilled with attendance double
that. In addition a NSF funded workshop on statistics use in research
was held in conjunction with ICER. The new leadership ?triumvirate?
comprised of Ray Lister (University of Sydney), Michael Clancy (UC
Berkeley) and Michael Casperson (University of Aarhus) reflects the
Board?s decision to alternate the conference between the US and non-US
venues. The 2008 ICER workshop will be in Sydney, Australia. The number
of papers submitted was double that in previous years and this
conference will have two co-located events, the second 2008 doctoral
consortium and the BRACElet research group workshop to study novice
programmers. The former will be held the day before ICER and the latter
the two days following.

Behind the scenes, Bob Beck (Villanova University) and Scott Grissom
(Grand Valley State University) have continued outstanding service as
Symposium Site Coordinators; and Mats Daniels (Uppsala University)
continues fine work as ITiCSE Site Coordinator \-- with the help of
Bruce Klein from Grand Valley State University. Michael Goldweber will
be joining the ITiCSE Site Coordination effort as understudy for Bruce
Klein.

Conference leadership has been procured through 2011, with the 2010
Symposium set for Milwaukee under the leadership of Steve Wolfman
(University of British Columbia) and Gary Lewandowski (Xavier
University, Cincinnati); and the 2011 Symposium heading to Dallas under
the leadership of Ellen Walker (Hiram College) and Tom Cortina (Carnegie
Mellon).

ITiCSE 2009 is set for Paris under the leadership of a relative newcomer
to the SIGCSE community, Patrick Br?zillon (University of Paris 6) ably
assisted by his colleague Jean-Marc Labat and his co-chair, SIGCSE Board
member and past SIGCSE Symposium chair, Ingrid Russell. ITiCSE 2010 is
set for Ankara, Turkey, the first ITiCSE conference beyond Europe.
Reyyan Ayfer and John Impagliazzo are the conference co-chairs. We have
at least four proposals in various states of development for future
ITiCSEs, so all goes well.

One major concern within the confines of a fluctuating dollar is the
pricing of the non-US conferences. The SIGCSE leadership is working with
our registration team and ACM to procure pricing in the local currency.

**Publications**\
John Impagliazzo became Editor-in-Chief of the SIGCSE Bulletin in 1997.
At that time, the Bulletin followed a traditional format, each issue had
solid articles, and editors established an impressive record of meeting
deadlines year after year. Over the past decade, John has brought
several significant innovations to SIGCSE\'s publications. Early on,
John suggested and the SIGCSE Board endorsed renaming our publication to
inroads. John also added guest editorials, a wonderful range of columns,
special articles, and a host of innovations, in addition to the
traditional submitted articles. The consistent high quality of inroads
is the main reason that SIGCSE has begun the transition of inroads to
ACM magazine status and the unbundling of the conference proceedings
from inroads. Currently inroads is classified as a newsletter, but this
in no way reflects the scholarly work that appears in it. John
Impagliazzo and a Board-appointed committee are hard at work setting up
a set of associate and assistant content editors as part of this
process.

SIGCSE has also been hard at work establishing criteria for the
nomination of its best papers for inclusion in the newly revamped CACM.
Having two of those nominations accepted by into the pipeline was a real
coup for us!

**Additional Activities**\
Through the past six years, the Board has sought to continue,
regularize, and/or expand programs, as SIGCSE tries to support a full
range of interests within the field of computing education. Our healthy
surplus has allowed us to fund many important endeavors and our strong
volunteer base has allowed for participation in many volunteer supported
efforts.

Details for many of these projects may be obtained at
[www.sigcse.org](http://www.sigcse.org)

**Outreach:** SIGCSE has provided funds for presenters from SIGCSE
conferences to lead similar sessions at regional conferences. Although
few conferences have taken advantage of this offer, SIGCSE is still
strongly committed to this.

**Doctoral Consortium:** Since 1998, SIGCSE has sponsored a Doctoral
Consortium with three main goals:

-   \"To offer a friendly forum for students to discuss their work and
    receive constructive feedback\",
-   \"To offer relevant information on issues important to doctoral
    candidates\", and
-   \"To nurture a community of researchers.\"

This annual event has been held the Wednesday before SIGCSE symposia and
has continued SIGCSE financial support. Capable leadership came from
Josh Tenenberg (University of Washington at Tacoma) and Donald Joyce
(Unitec New Zealand).

Since the Doctoral Consortium focuses on research issues, we will begin
holding the Doctoral Consortium in conjunction with the ICER conference.
To allow a smooth transition, the Doctoral Consortium met at its usual
time in March 2008, just before SIGCSE 2008. Then, beginning in
September 2008 and subsequent years, the Doctoral Consortium will meet
in conjunction with the ICER conferences. This should also afford more
easy access to students from outside the United States.

**Workshop for Department Chairs:** SIGCSE held its third annual
Roundtable for Department Chairs at SIGCSE 2008, under the capable
guidance of Frank Young (emeritus Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology),
Sandra DeLoatch (Norfolk State University), Dianne Martin (George
Washington University) and Joyce Currie Little (Towson University).

The focus of the 2007 and 2008 workshops expanded from new department
chairs to issues of interest to all chairs. Evaluations indicate this
event was quite successful; SIGCSE expects these events to continue
annually in the future.

**Special Projects:** SIGCSE has funding available ?to support members
who wish to investigate and introduce new ideas in the learning and
teaching of computing.\" Grants are possible up to \$5,000 USD per
proposal, and successful recipients are expected to present their
results at a SIGCSE conference.

**SIGCSE Committees:** The SIGCSE Committee Initiative was created in
2001-2002 to encourage \"all SIGCSE members to participate in
substantive discussions on areas of community interest, with the goals
of investigating topics in depth and culminating with substantive
reports.\" Three committees are active ?women in computing, research
methods and faculty evaluation. The committee on discrete math completed
its work, publishing its final report in inroads and a collection of
teaching materials on the SIGCSE web site. The effectiveness of this
structure will have on-going review by the Board.

**Web Site/Internet Presence:** Scott Grissom (Grand Valley State
University) continues to monitor and update the SIGCSE Web site at
[www.sigcse.org](http://www.sigcse.org). Also, Frank Young (Rose-Hulman
Institute of Technology) and William Turner (Wabash College) served ably
as Information Directors, working to improved electronic communications
between SIGCSE members. A concerted effort was begun this year to adopt
the look-feel of the ACM web presence and utilize Plone to continue the
update process. Samuel Mann of Otago Tech in New Zealand is championing
this endeavor beginning with a course project with his students at
Otago. Scott Grissom Grissom will continue his usual fantastic job of
keeping the website updated while the redesign effort is underway.

**Local Chapters:** Several groups have indicated an interest in
organizing as local SIGCSE Chapters, and the Board has provided an
appropriate framework. In 2008 SIGCSE approved an Australasian SIGCSE
chapter and a chapter in Spain.

**Collaborative Efforts**\
Even with its expanded role in supporting computing education at all
levels, SIGCSE also celebrates that various groups have emerged to focus
on specific areas.

Since ACM launched the Computer Science Teachers Association (CSTA) in
2005 with a focus on K-12 computing education, SIGCSE and CSTA have
worked to collaborate on areas of common interest. In 2007-2008 CSTA and
SIGCSE successfully applied for an NSF Planning grant to hold a workshop
to define best practices for ?Roadshows? to take the word about the
benefits of studying computer science into the high schools.

In cooperation conferences and venues. SIGCSE has granted in-cooperation
status to a variety of efforts. We have a lot of in cooperation
conferences including the Australasian Computing Education Conference,
the New Zealand NACCQ Conference, the Scandinavian Koli Calling
Conference, the Game Development in Computer Science Education
Conference, and all of the Consortium for Computing Sciences in Colleges
(CCSC) regional conferences, for example

**Summary and Conclusion**\
As this review of activities and events indicates, SIGCSE is a vibrant
and expanding organization through the activities of hundreds of people.
Many, many thanks to each SIGCSE member for your many contributions that
make SIGCSE so successful.

Barbara Boucher Owens 2007-2010 SIGCSE Chair
