---
title: SIGCSE Annual Report 2009/2010
layout: page
---

**SIGCSE 2009-2010 Annual Chair's Report\
Barbara Boucher Owens**

ACM assigns the responsibility for each SIG's Annual Chair's Report to
the immediate past chair when a new Chair has just assumed the office.
Renée McCauley as the new chair has only to read this one!

First of all, let me express my deepest appreciation to the 2007-2010
SIGCSE Board. Each and every one of the members performed with
exceptional energy, skill and thoughtfulness. The members of that Board
were the Executive Committee consisting of Vice-Chair Alison Young
(Christchurch Polytechnic Institute of Technology, New Zealand),
Secretary Dan Joyce (Villanova University), Treasurer Renée McCauley
(College of Charleston), and Immediate Past Chair Henry Walker (Grinnell
College). The At-Large Members were Doug Baldwin (SUNY Geneseo), Wanda
Dann (Carnegie Mellon) and Ingrid Russell (University of Hartford).
Without their energy, and the countless hours they and other volunteers
have given to the organization none of the work would have been
possible.

Unlike my previous Chair's Reports, this is a three-part report. Part I
consists largely of a lengthy excerpt from my report on the Viability
Study published in the June 2010 SIGCSE Bulletin. Part II resembles a
standard Chair's Report and looks at the highlights of 2009-2010. Part
III addresses the challenges faced by the 2010-2013 SIGCSE Board as I
see them.

**Part I -- SIGCSE Viability**

Each SIG must undergo a Viability Study every four years, and the SGB
(SIG Governing Board which is comprised of the chairs of each ACM
Special Interest Group) votes on whether to deem the SIG viable for the
next four years. This was the year for SIGCSE to be assessed and we are
now assessed as viable until the next review in 2014.

The SGB asked each SIG to reflect on its goals and how well the SIG met
those goals.

Begin quote: "What did I say?

Let me first point out that the downturn in the economy did affect
SIGCSE. Our financial report wasn't as rosy as the one Henry gave in
2006. But listening to the reports of other SIGs and reflecting on all
that SIGCSE does we are a very healthy SIG and we have much to be proud
of.

**SLIDE 1: FINANCES** SIGCSE has a basically healthy \$470,000 fund
balance that is comfortably better than the minimum required by ACM.
However, it was down almost \$50,000 from the year before.

Some of the specific reasons for our shortfall were due to quirks in
accounting and the timing of when income and expenses from conferences
were posted. SIGCSE incurred one-time large production costs by moving
from its old Bulletin, inroads, to the new high quality ACM magazine,
Inroads. The electronic version of the newsletter as the Bulletin, and
the shorted page count of the new magazine with electronic conference
proceedings will reduce our mailing costs in the future. A third area
contributing to the decrease in our fund balance was the expense of
volunteer travel. SIGCSE's growing international presence will make this
a continuing need.

**SLIDE 2: MEMBER BENEFITS** Briefly tons of them!\
We have 2600 members who receive the proceedings of our 3 annual
conferences on CD. Those conferences are the 1200-attendee US hosted
Symposium, the \~200 attendee non-US ITiCSE Conference and the \~50
attendee research conference (ICER workshop)

Through 2009, we had a quarterly newsletter (which included 1 issue
Symposium proceedings, 3 magazine style including columns, edited
articles, etc. and peer reviewed papers from ITiCSE working groups)
SIGCSE received income from the ACM digital library based on the number
of its articles that were accessed. In 2009 SIGCSE received \$56,000
income from the DL. SIGCSE members are eligible to apply for small
research grants in learning and teaching. Our able volunteers oversee
our very active member list servs -- e.g. members.sigcse.org has 1200
members who have opted in for discussions on all aspects of CS Ed

**SLIDES 3-5: GOALS** Our mission states that SIGCSE is a "forum for
educators to discuss issues related to the development, implementation,
and/or evaluation of computing programs, curricula, and courses, as well
as syllabi, laboratories, and other elements of teaching and pedagogy.\"

We believe that SIGCSE continues to be perceived as the premier
organization for computing education. SIGCSE primarily serves
post-secondary Computer Science teaching faculty and Computer Science
education research faculty with many of its activities focused on making
CS1 and CS2 effective. SIGCSE secondarily serves pre-college faculty
through our relationship with the Computer Science Teachers Association,
CSTA and with other post-secondary teaching faculty in related computing
disciplines

SIGCSE has a goal to extend the reach and influence of Computing
Education. A majority of the members on ACM Education committees are or
have been SIGCSE officers or large conference leadership. SIGCSE also
aims to extend its influence beyond US Computer Science through
international conferences including ITiCSE and the ICER workshop which
alternated being held abroad with the US. SIGCSE received an NSF grant
in conjunction with CSTA.

SIGCSE holds in cooperation status with many conferences, in the US and
internationally including the CCSC conferences, the Australasian, New
Zealand, Koli Calling, AAAI.\
SIGCSE funds SIGCSE presenters to take conference presentations to
regional conferences, especially CCSC. SIGCSE was and continues to be a
major player in the NSF funded Computing Education Summit. There
continues to be a Broadening Participation in Computing thread at SIGCSE
Conferences, with the goal to increase interest in computing. Some of
those activities include a Kids Camp at Symposium, and a Doctoral
Symposium. Our members have leadership roles in NCWIT, NSF BPC projects,
CPATH

SIGCSE provides continuing education members at Symposia where the
number of workshops continues to grow, with 39 offered in 2010. SIGCSE
also sponsors workshops for both new faculty and for department chairs.

**Bottom line** SIGCSE is not only viable, it is vibrant."

End quote SIGCSE Bulletin, Vol.42, issue 2, p.4.

**Part II -- 2009-2010 Highlights**

### Awards
Each year SIGCSE gives awards to those who have been particularly
helpful to the computer-science-education community. SIGCSE gave two
awards this year, both officially at the Technical Symposium which was
in March, 2010. Sally Fincher, University of Kent at Canterbury, UK,
received the Outstanding Contribution award and gave the opening keynote
address. The SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service was presented to Peter
Denning, Naval Postgraduate School, who addressed partakers of the
first-timers luncheon.

## Conference Highlights
In 2009-2010, SIGCSE sponsored three main conferences: the Technical
Symposium, the summer (Northern Hemisphere) ITiCSE conference and the
research conference known as the ICER workshop. The SIGCSE Technical
Symposium and the Digital Library revenues continue to generate
additional revenue to support our many endeavors.

SIGCSE 2010 in Milwaukee was remarkably successful, with very strong
attendance in spite of a struggling world economy. This year's
Co-Chairs, Gary Lewandowski (University of Cincinnati) and Steve Wolfman
(University of British Columbia) were incredible. Special thanks are due
the 2010 Program Committee, led by Program co-chairs Tom Cortina and
Ellen Walker who will be chairs of the 2011 Technical Symposium in
Dallas, Texas. Additional keynote speakers at the conference were Nobel
Laureate Carl Wieman and Michael Wrinn of Intel's Intel\'s Innovative
Software Education Team.

### ICER 2009
The International Computing Education Conference (ICER) 2009 conference
was at UC Berkeley, hosted by Mike Clancy with strong attendance. The
number of participants in the co-located doctoral consortium was down
significantly. We will watch the 2010 conferences in Aarhus, Denmark,
carefully and reflect upon the advisability of the co-location of the DC
with ICER rather than the Symposium.

ITiCSE 2010 was held in Ankara, Turkey. Over 200 attendees from every
continent except Antarctica made for a vibrant conference under the
leadership of co-chairs Reyyan Ayfer of Bilkent University and John
Impagliazzo (Qatar University) and program chair Cary Laxer (Rose
Hulman). Keynotes by Nüket Yeti?, head of TÜB?TAK (similar to US NSF),
Ali Ekrem Özkul from The Council of Higher Education (Turkey) and Jane
Prey (Microsoft Research) set the tone for the meeting. Next year's
conference will be in Darmstadt, Germany under the leadership of Guido
Roessling.

### Publications
John Impagliazzo became Editor-in-Chief of the new SIGCSE supported ACM
magazine, Inroads, as 2010 also saw the unbundling of the conference
proceedings from our newsletter. Curt M. White took the helm as editor
of the SIGCSE Corner in that publication. The SIGCSE Bulletin was
revamped and launched as an electronic newsletter under the editorial
leadership of Z Sweedyk and Henry Walker.

The SIGCSE website has been completely revised under the capable
management of Dan Joyce.

### Other Activities
SIGCSE undertook a multitude of other projects, all of which have been
documented in a detailed spreadsheet. Among these activities were
funding for outreach projects, a doctoral consortium, a workshop for
department chairs, and a workshop for new faculty.

**Part III Challenges**

The following is a brief outline of the challenges facing the 2010-2013
SIGCSE Board and the membership it represents.

A critical challenge is returning the budget to a positive bottom line
for the organization. The SIGCSE conferences continue to be
well-attended, but have ceased to be making enough profit to sustain the
ambitious goals of the organization. The new board must consider ways to
reverse the trend. The registration fees may need to be increased to
match rising costs, waived registrations for volunteers may need to be
controlled, funding for good works such as outreach and special projects
may need to be reduced, the recently increased monetary awards for award
winners may need to be re-evaluated, and Board travel costs need to be
examined.

The SIGCSE By-laws are in need of a few small tweaks. For example, the
recent changes in Inroads and the Bulletin have highlighted the need for
a re-definition of the Publications chair, and the role of the past
chair is ambiguous in the current version.

SIGCSE has been faced with issues that may need thoughtful responses.
For example, the Board recently took a stand on Academic Freedom and
supported the AAUP and UNESCO statements. SIGCSE is faced with the need
to address the National Research Council's standards on education that
omits Computer Science from those K-12 suggestions.

There has been a possible infringement of SIGCSE conference name by one
called ITCSE and that conference\'s procurement of the domain name
cseducation.org

SIGCSE needs to assess its continuing involvement in the formation of
CECC (Computing Education Coordinating Council), and to maintain the
SIGCSE voice within the ACM Ed Board, Ed Council (where we now have an
appointed representative), the Education Policy Committee, and the
Computer Science Teacher Association (CSTA).

With respect to conferences, SIGCSE needs to review its criteria for
approving in-cooperation with conferences and to improve mechanisms for
including in-cooperation with conference proceedings in the DL. For its
own conferences it needs to look forward to site selection and consider
the role and place of the Doctoral Consortium.

Member benefits are changing. The Board needs to tackle such issues as
the availability of the Bulletin to members only and the possibility of
inclusion of the Transactions on Computing Education as a benefit. Where
should the reports of the ITiCSE working groups appear?

The new Board will need to assess its duties. New members entail new
roles. The Board will need to consider the frequency and costs of both
its face-to-face and teleconference meetings.

An urgent challenge is that of SIGCSE's role in Computer Science
Education Week in early December. What activities can the Board
encourage or sponsor?

The opportunities and challenges are many. SIGCSE is vibrant and we are
up to those challenges. I thank the membership of SIGCSE and all its
volunteers for the opportunity to have served as Chair for the past
three years and look forward to my more advisory role as past chair. I
wish the new Board all the best!
