---
title: SIGCSE Annual Report 2011/2012
layout: page
---

SIGCSE Chair\'s Annual Report\
2011-2012

This report concludes my second year as SIGCSE Chair.

1\. Awards that were given out:

SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education
Community was presented to Jane Prey, formerly of University of Virginia
and Microsoft (retired).

SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education
was presented to Hal Abelson, MIT.

2\. Significant papers on new areas that were published in proceedings

Best paper awards were given out at two of our conferences:

At ITiCSE 2011, Randy Connolly, Mount Royal University, received the
Best Paper Award\
for \"Beyond Good and Evil Impacts: Rethinking the Social Issues
Components in Our Computing Curricula,\"\
which was published in the Proceedings of the ITiCSE\'11: 16th Annual
Conference on Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education
(Darmstadt, Germany).

At SIGCSE 2012, Jeremy Andrus and Jason Nieh, Columbia University,
received the Best Paper Award for their work on "Teaching Operating
Systems Using Android," which was published in the Proceedings of the
43rd ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (Raleigh, NC,
USA).

3\. Significant programs that provided a springboard for further
technical efforts

The \"TauRUs\" (Taulbee Survey for the Rest of Us) project began with
funding through two SIGCSE special projects. TauRUs attempts to capture
data regarding the state of computer science education at non-Ph.D.
granting institutions. The project has been such a success that ACM has
committed funding to continue the project.

In 2011 SIGCSE was invited to participate in an initiative on Mobilizing
STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) Education for a
Sustainable Future (<http://www.aacu.org/pkal/>
disciplinarysocietypartnerships/mobilizing/index.cfm). Two SIGCSE
representatives attended a May 2011 meeting that focused on the
identification of projects related to student learning about
sustainability. Six projects were identified with progress made in the
interim through electronic meetings. SIGCSE has a representative on five
of the projects. In May 2012 a SIGCSE representative attended the
meeting of the entire group where project progress and results were
reported.

4.Innovative programs which provide service to some part of your
technical community

The Special Projects grant program has been booming this year:

August 2011: 13 proposals, 3 funded, \$7500 total\
November 2011: 12 proposals, 1 funded, \$5000\
Under consideration now are 15 proposals submitted during the May 15
round.

This year marked the first SIGCSE/CRA-sponsored workshop for new
faculty. It was held in conjunction with the SIGCSE 2012 conference and
is expected to be offered every other year.

SIGCSE continues to work closely with the Computer Science Teachers
Association (CSTA) and provides CSTA meeting space at the annual SIGCSE
technical symposium.

The SIGCSE technical symposium provides meeting space and access to AV
and food for numerous pre-symposium events. At SIGCSE 2012,
pre-symposium events included an open meeting of SIGCAS, a meeting on
accreditation of computing degree programs, and workshops on Alice
programming, teaching ethics through active learning and teaching open
source.

Thirty-six professional development workshops were offered during the
SIGCSE technical symposium.

\-\-\--

5\. A very brief summary for the key issues that the membership of that
SIG will have to deal with in the next 2-3 years.

Internationalization is expected to continue to be a major focus of
SIGCSE. Currently all SIGCSE board members are US residents, even though
our membership and conference participants are from all over the world.
Elections will be held in 2013 - there is hope that the result of these
elections will improve this situation.

SIGCSE representatives are working with Informatics Europe
representatives to discuss the possibility of formation of a new
SIGCSE-like education conference in Europe. The ICER conference already
moves from the US to Europe to Australasia on a rotating 3-year basis.

We have an Australasian \"chapter\" and a chapter in Turkey, and are
discussing European, Indian, and Chinese expansion. Managing this growth
and providing an equitable voice for these regions is a key issue for
SIGCSE. SIGCSE will continue to investigate how it can serve the
education needs around the world.
