---
title: SIGCSE Annual Report 2012/2013
layout: page
---

SIGCSE Chair\'s Annual Report\
2012-2013

This report concludes my third and final year as SIGCSE Chair.

1\. Awards that were given out:

SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education
Community was presented to Henry Walker, Grinnell College.

SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education
was presented to Michael KÃ¶lling, University of Kent.

2\. Significant papers on new areas that were published in proceedings

Best paper awards were given at two of our conferences:

At ICER 2012, The Chairs\' Award went to Colleen Lewis, Harvey Mudd
College, for \"The Importance of Students' Attention to Program State: A
Case Study of Debugging Behavior.\"

At SIGCSE 2012, the Best Paper Award went to Leo Porter, Skidmore
College, and Beth Simon, University of California, San Diego for
\"Retaining Nearly One-Third more Majors with a Trio of Instructional
Best Practices in CS1.\"

3\. Significant programs that provided a springboard for further
technical efforts

SIGCSE continues as a Society Partner in Project Kaleidoscope\'s SISL in
STEM initiative
(<http://www.aacu.org/pkal/disciplinarysocietypartnerships/sisl/index.cfm>).
A SIGCSE representative has been present during several conference calls
and SIGCSE has a member on 5 of the 6 working committees.

4.Innovative programs which provide service to some part of your
technical community

The Special Projects grant program, which makes small grants for
projects beneficial to SIGCSE members, has been seen an increase in
submissions this year:

May 2012: 15 proposals, 3 funded, \$13360\
November 2012: 20 proposals, 3 funded, \$14000\
May 2013 round: 12 proposals, 1 funded, \$5000

SIGCSE continues to work closely with the Computer Science Teachers
Association (CSTA) and provides CSTA meeting space at the annual SIGCSE
technical symposium.

The SIGCSE technical symposium provides meeting space and access to AV
and food for numerous pre-symposium events. At SIGCSE 2013,
pre-symposium events included a CSAB workshop, a SIGCAS meeting, a CRA
women mentoring workshop, as well as workshops on Git & GitHub, GENI,
computational thinking through music, computing ethics, and preparing
students to participate in free open-source software.

Thirty-six professional development workshops were offered during the
SIGCSE technical symposium.

\-\-\--\
5. Events or programs that broadened participation either
geographically, or among under-represented members of your community;

In order to increase the likelihood of international membership on the
2013-16 board, the nominating committee focused on identifying an
international pool of qualified candidates. The recently elected board
includes 2 Australasians and 6 Americans. (The 2010-13 board consisted
of 8 Americans.)

Through a donation from former SIGCSE Chair, Henry Walker, a travel
grant program was established to support young faculty to attend SIGCSE
conferences.

Two SIGCSE board members are participating on the SIG Governing Board
Full Inclusion committee.

Finally, SIGCSE supports and promotes efforts aimed at increasing
inclusion and educating the population about computing such as CS Ed
Week, the College Board\'s pilot program for Advanced Placement courses
in Computer Science Principles, and other national and international
movements that promote computer science, such as code.org.\
\-\-\--

6\. A very brief summary for the key issues that the membership of that
SIG will have to deal with in the next 2-3 years.

Internationalization is expected to continue to be a major focus of
SIGCSE.

The ballot of candidates for the new board included SIGCSE members from
the U.S., Europe, Australasia and South America. The recently elected
board includes two members from Australasia.

SIGCSE continues to investigate how it can engage educators from around
the world. SIGCSE representatives are working with Informatics Europe
representatives to discuss the possible formation of a new SIGCSE-like
education conference in Europe. The ICER conference already moves from
the US to Europe to Australasia on a rotating 3-year basis. The ITiCSE
conference has historically been held in or around Europe, including
Haifa, Israel (2012) and Canterbury, UK (2013). Upcoming ITiCSE
conferences will be held in Uppsala, Sweden (2014), Vilnius, Lithuania
(2015) and Arequipa, Peru (2016).

SIGCSE has chapters around the world including Australia, Spain and
Turkey. Discussions concerning new chapters in Europe, India and China
are underway. Managing this growth and providing an equitable voice for
these regions is a key issue for SIGCSE.
