---
layout: page
event: symposium

year: 2020
title: 51st SIGCSE TS 2020
edition: 51st
location: "Portland, OR, USA"
theme: "A Vision for the Next 50 Years"
dates: "March 11-14, 2020"
website: "http://sigcse2020.sigcse.org/"
proceedings-title: "SIGCSE '20: Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education"
doi: https://dl.acm.org/doi/proceedings/10.1145/3328778

outstanding:
- name: Lauri Malmi
  desc: "For leadership in building the international computing education research community, and raising the profile and quality of computing education research and research mentorship."

lifetime:
- name: Alison Clear
  desc: "For sustained commitment and dedication to computing educators, computing education, excellence in teaching and research and innovative curriculum design nationally and internationally."

logo: sigcse2020_logo.png
proceedings-cover: SIGCSE20.png
---

{% include symposium-head.md %}


#### 2020 Technical Symposium Best Papers
{:.border-bottom}

##### Best Papers for CS Education Research

1. An Nguyen and Colleen M. Lewis. 2020. Competitive Enrollment Policies in Computing Departments Negatively Predict First-Year Students' Sense of Belonging, Self-Efficacy, and Perception of Department. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 685–691. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366805>

2. Jeremiah Blanchard, Christina Gardner-McCune, and Lisa Anthony. 2020. Dual-Modality Instruction and Learning: A Case Study in CS1. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 818–824. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366865>

3. Valdemar Švábenský, Jan Vykopal, and Pavel Čeleda. 2020. What Are Cybersecurity Education Papers About? A Systematic Literature Review of SIGCSE and ITiCSE Conferences. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2–8. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366816>

##### Best Papers for Experience Reports and Tools

1. Tracy Camp, Christine Liebe, and Michelle Slattery. 2020. Applying NCWIT Protocol to Broaden Participation in Computing: A Case Study of CS@Mines. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 528–534. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366958>

2. Jennifer Tsan, Jessica Vandenberg, Zarifa Zakaria, Joseph B. Wiggins, Alexander R. Webber, Amanda Bradbury, Collin Lynch, Eric Wiebe, and Kristy Elizabeth Boyer. 2020. A Comparison of Two Pair Programming Configurations for Upper Elementary Students. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 346–352. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366941>

3. Jessica Young Schmidt. 2020. Reviewing CS1 Materials through a Collaborative Software Engineering Exercise: An Experience Report. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 379–385. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366932>

##### Best Papers for Curriculum Initiatives

1. Paul Goldenberg, June Mark, Brian Harvey, Al Cuoco, and Mary Fries. 2020. Design Principles behind Beauty and Joy of Computing. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 220–226. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366794>

2. Abhijeet Agnihotri, Matthew O'Kelly, Rahul Mangharam, and Houssam Abbas. 2020. Teaching Autonomous Systems at 1/10th-scale: Design of the F1/10 Racecar, Simulators and Curriculum. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 657–663. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366796>

3. Joel C. Adams. 2020. Creating a Balanced Data Science Program. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE '20). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 185–191. DOI:<https://doi.org/10.1145/3328778.3366800>