---
title: "1972 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 2nd Technical Symposium was held at Washington University in St.
Louis on March 24-25, 1972. The Conference Chair was Seymour V. Pollack
from Washington University in St. Louis. The Program Chair was Leland
Williams from Triangle Universities Computation Center and Robert Aiken
(University of Tennessee) once again was Editor of the Proceedings.
Again, "over 40" papers were submitted with approximately 30 being
accepted. There were 179 attendees. (Briana Morrison)

Also, some additional information from Chris Wilcox about the man who
organized SIGCSE and was the first Chair:\
Dr. Organick was my master\'s thesis advisor and a personal friend of
our family. I first met him by chance in the 1970\'s at a remote lake in
the Uinta mountains where my father and I were backpacking. He was
diagnosed with leukemia shortly afterward, and told that he had a very
short time to live, however he actually survived for another ten years.
During that period he became my advisor and I learned from him as well
as teaching for him numerous times during his illness. I credit him with
sending me down the path of becoming a computer science professor. He
was a man of complete integrity and boundless energy, both before and
after his diagnosis. I still remember him telling me with his usual
prescience how excited he was about object-oriented programming (in
Ada), and how that would be the next big thing, I think anyone that knew
him would give the same sort of testimonial, and I was not in the least
surprised that he was a charter member of the SIGCSE organization.
(Chris Wilcox)