---
title: "1973 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

Starting in 1973 our Technical Symposia were held in conjunction with
the "Computer Science Conference." This conference focused more on
research and primarily consisted of a few invited speakers and numerous
short abstracts of ongoing Computer Science research activities.
Providing a forum for PhD candidates to discuss their work and for
departments to recruit was also a primary function! Originally it was
sponsored by some large Universities and corporations. ACM handled many
of the organizing details.

The 3rd Technical Symposium was held February 22-23, 1973 at The Ohio
State University in Columbus, OH, in conjunction with the Computer
Science Conference (CSC). Gerald Engel from Pennsylvania State
University was the Conference Chair. "Over 80" papers were submitted
with 43 of them accepted for presentation. Check out
<https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1125118> for a look at the programs.
Here's the conference committee:\
![The 1973 conference
committee](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/thirdTS.png)

However, since the Technical Symposium was held jointly with CSC, exact
attendance numbers are difficult to ascertain. It was the primarily
those associated with the CSC that handled most of the finances,
registration, etc. (though we had a reasonably straightforward agreement
as to how our registration would be handled, finances and expenses
determined\--mostly from exhibits and registrations). This resulted in
SIGCSE not having total control over the exact "numbers." For example,
one day and late registrations were sometime difficult to ascertain.
However, we do have a few estimates. For our meeting in Columbus in 1973
we had about 200 attendees.

We have two pictures from this conference:\
![Marshall Yovits receiving thank you gift from Orrin
Taulbee.](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/TaulbeeYovits.jpg)\
Orrin E. Taulbee, University of Pittsburgh and Marshall Yovits, Ohio
State CS Chair, 1973\
Taulbee did the Taulbee Report. Yovits probably chaired the very first
CSC.

![1973 Computer Science Conference Committee. One man surrounded by 9
women.](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/1973ConferenceCommittee.jpg)\
1973? Computer Science Conference Committee (Thanks to Frank Friedman
for the picture).

Some were ACM officers, including Gwen Bell. According to Frank: "Most
of the CSC Committee were women and they were REALLY GOOD people. They
basically ran the show."

A new Board was also elected. Chair was Richard Austing. Vice-Chair was
Gerald Engel. Secretary/Treasurer was J. Robert Jump. Board Members were
Barry Bateman, Aaron Finerman (past chair), and Seymour Pollock (past
Symposium chair). Della Bonnette became the Bulletin Editor and was
assisted by John Dalphin. A quick internet search says that Della
Bonnette is still active with CSAB and accreditation issues.

My sincere gratitude to Bob Aiken for helping me dig up some of this
information.\
(Briana Morrison)