---
title: "1976 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

From 1976 through 1978, there were actually TWO Technical Symposiums
held each year. The first was held in February, jointly with CSC. The
second, held late mid-year was only a SIGCSE event.

In 1976, the 5th Technical Symposium was held February 12-13 at
Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim, CA as part of the ACM Computer Science
Conference. Paul Lorton, Jr. of the University of San Francisco and Ron
Colman from California State University at Fullerton were Conference
Chairs. We don't know how many papers were submitted, but 66 were
accepted. In the Digital Library, this is listed as the "Proceedings of
the SIGCSE-SIGCUE joint symposium on Computer Science Education" (SIGCUE
being Computer Uses in Education), but I can find no corroboration that
this was joint.

Bob Aiken adds this explanation:\

> I remember our Symposia being at least two days with their own General
> Chair and Program Chair (and committee). Some registration numbers
> were difficult to unearth and cost sharing sometimes hard to negotiate
> (though each leadership group tried hard to be equitable). I do
> remember that during that period we set a goal of 1,000 attendees for
> the SIGCSE Symposium ... and it took us a number of years to finally
> reach it (though we were only slightly under that goal for several
> years before achieving it)!

In July of 1976, SIGCSE held its 6th Technical Symposium at Fort
Magruder in Williamsburg, VA -- on our own! Norman Gibbs from the
College of William and Mary was the Conference Chair. Thirty-five papers
were accepted for presentation.\
(Briana Morrison)