---
title: "1977 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 7th Technical Symposium was held February 2-3, 1977 at the Marriott
Hotel in Atlanta, GA jointly with CSC. John Goda from Georgia Institute
of Technology was the Conference Chair. See
<https://portalparts.acm.org/810000/800008/fm/frontmatter.pdf?ip=137.48.185.10>\
for the proceedings. This appears to be the first occurrence of a
workshop (then called Birds of a Feather) on Structured COBOL by Daniel
McCracken, and the first occurrence of a student programming contest at
Georgia Tech.

SIGCSE held another Technical Symposium, the 8th on August 4-5, 1977 at
the University of Southwestern Louisiana Conference Center in Lafayette,
LA. Della Bonnette (from University of Southwestern Louisiana) was the
Conference Chair and Terry Walker, also from University of Southwestern
Louisiana, was the Program Chair. Eighteen papers were accepted for
presentation.

New officers were elected to lead the organization. Robert Aiken served
as Chair with Norman Gibbs as Vice-Chair. Terry Walker was the
Secretary/Treasurer. Board Members were Richard Austing (past chair),
Gerald Engel (past vice-chair), and Betty Sproule (first female board
member!). Della Bonnette continued in her 3rd term as Bulletin Editor
and John Gorgone assisted.

It appears that Betty Sproule has found a successful second career after
CS: <http://stuffcure.com>

There were three special issues of the Bulletin this year: the February
issue contained the proceedings of the 7th Technical Symposium; the June
issue was on computer science curricula; and the July issue contained
the proceedings of the 8th Technical Symposium. From the June issue:\
\
\
![June 1977 issue of the
Bulletin](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/BulletinJune1977.jpg)\
