---
title: "1978 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

This year was the 10th Anniversary of the founding of SIGCSE. During
1978 we held two conferences, but only one was designated as the
Technical Symposium.

As reported in The Bulletin (Vol. 9, Issue 4, Dec. 1977):

> Ken Williams is organizing what appears to be one of our most
> successful SIGCSE Symposia (scheduled for February 23-24 in Detroit).
> He reports that he has already received a number of interesting papers
> and they\'re still rolling in.

Volume 10, Issue 1, February 1978 contains the papers of the SIGCSE/CSA
technical symposium on computer science education -- but is NOT an
official numbered Technical Symposium. This conference was held in
Detroit, Michigan and chaired by Ken Williams (Western Michigan
University) and had 53 papers accepted with 352 people in attendance. A
full report can be found at <https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=382187>.

The official 9th Technical Symposium was held August 14-15 in Pittsburgh
and was joint with IEEE/Computer Society Education Committee. Alf
Bertztiss (University of Pittsburgh) was the General Chair.

From The Bulletin (Vol. 10, Issue 2, June 1978):\
![The Bulletin Vol. 10, Issue 2, June
1978](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ninthTS.jpg)\
Volume 10, Issue 3, August 1978 contains the papers from this
conference. There were over 100 attendees and they came from 25
different states, Canada, Mexico, and Iceland.

You may find it interesting to know the types of events, around the
world, that SIGCSE members were involved in, way back in the late 70s.
In Volume 10, Issue 4, December 1978 of The Bulletin, the following
events were brought to members attention:

-   ACM '78, December where a business meeting was held and SIGCSE
    sponsored several sessions
-   CSC/SIGCSE, the 10th Technical Symposium in February, 1979
-   National Education Computing Conference (NECC), June 1979 in Iowa
    City, billed as a cross-fertilization effort with other
    organizations such as AEDS, ADCIS, and IEEE Computer Society.
-   International Symposium on Computers and Education in Dusseldorf,
    Germany, March, 1979
-   Third World Conference on Computer Education, Lausanne, Switzerland,
    July 1981

Even then we were global! At the December 1978 Business Meeting, there
was a discussion on whether we should be named CSE or CE (computing
education). The name issue is 40 years old!\
(Briana Morrison)
