---
title: "1985 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

In 1985 we elected new officers: Della Bonnette (University of
Southwestern Louisiana) for Chair, Elliott Koffman (Temple University)
for Vice-Chair, Robert Cupper (Allegheny College) for
Secretary/Treasurer. The At-Large members elected were Lillian Cassel
(Goldey Beacom College), A. Joe Turner (Clemson University), and Joyce
Currie Little (Towson State University).

James Miller (University of West Florida) continued as Bulletin Editor.
Here's an idea of what submissions were like (from the Volume 17 Issue
2, June 1985 Bulletin):\
*At present most accepted papers are retyped on a word processor. We are
attempting to standardize the format to single-spaced, double Column
copy in prestige elite typeface, with 10 characters/inch, with 42
characters/line, and with right and left margin justification. Single
column format is 89 characters/line.*\
*We then print them on standard white computer paper and do a
\"cut-and-paste\" layout on camera-ready matte sheets which are
photographically reduced 25 percent. ... Copy may be typed directly on
the sheets and is correctable with Snopake, or you can use
cut-and-paste.*\
*I will ask you to send any graphs, tables, or figures in camera-ready
form and to remember that the 25 percent reduction may reduce their
effectiveness. Small illustrations may be drawn directly on the matte
sheets with a black felt-tipped pen or attached with rubber cement.*

The 16th Technical Symposium was held March 12-14, 1985 in New Orleans,
LA at the Marriott Hotel. The Conference Chair was Della T. Bonnette
(University of Southwest Louisiana). The Program Chair was Harriet G.
Taylor (Louisiana State University) and Nell Dale (University of Texas
Austin) served as the Special Sessions Chair. A total of 68 papers were
accepted. The proceedings are in the first issue of the Bulletin for
1985. Interesting for me, I think I found the first work on cognition in
programming at SIGCSE:

COGNITIVE PROCESSES IN PROGRAMMING MODERATOR: Laurie Werth (UNLV)
:   This panel will discuss (a) the cognitive processes used in computer
    programming (b) how to use these processes in teaching computer
    science. Laurie Werth will introduce the panel members and give a
    brief background of work in this area. A short review of studies
    predicting success in beginning computer science classes, as well as
    copies of two computer science placement examinations, will be
    available as handouts.\
    Barry Kurtz (New Mexico State) will briefly describe Piaget\'s
    intellectual development levels and a computer science test which he
    has designed to measure the correspondence between Piaget\'s levels
    and success in a beginning programming class. Dave Scanlan (Illinois
    State) will discuss the differences between right and left brain
    cognitive abilities and the need for tapping right brain abilities
    in teaching computer science. Saj-nicole Joni (Yale University) will
    present a brief overview of the cognitive methodology used in
    cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence research. Using the
    programming knowledge which has been identified, she will present
    some ideas on helping novice programmers to correct non-buggy
    programs. Jeff Bonar (University of Pittsburgh) will discuss
    cognitive elements in programming which he has measured and then
    explain a plan-based intelligent tutoring environment which he
    developed for beginning programmers.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education was awarded
to Elliot Organick. He was given the award as the Founder of SIGCSE,
author and disseminator of the MULTICS operating system, and author of
several widely disseminated textbooks in programming languages and first
computer courses.

Here's another great story from Frank Friedman:\

> I am not sure when this happened, but probably the early 80s. I was
> the Allegheny Regional Rep to ACM Council when we had several naming
> discussions for our dear old Association, principally because of
> concerns that the word Machinery was in the name. So in my quarterly
> newsletter to ACM Members in the Allegheny Region and wrote a little
> blurb about this discussion and asked for member feedback concerning
> the name. I got only three responses which right there told me what I
> needed to know. But all three responses pretty much asked whether
> Council had better things to do. And two of the three changed my name
> from Frank to Fred.

And that was that. Now I have two names.

Frank er, I mean Fred