---
title: "1986 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

In 1986 the 17th Technical Symposium was held February 6-7 in
Cincinnati, OH at the Clarion Hotel. The Conference Chair was Richard H.
Austing (University of Maryland). The Program Chairs were Joyce Currie
Little (Towson State Univ) and Lillian N. Cassel (University of
Delaware). Bruce J. and Georgianna T. Klein (Grand Valley State College)
served as the Special Sessions Chairs. Over 100 papers were submitted
and 51 were accepted. A fun fact about this Technical Symposium -- it
included a German Festival!

Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education was awarded to
**Donald Knuth** for authoring the influential series the \"Art of
Computer Programming\" and his continuing contributions including TeX
publication tool. His keynote talk was entitled "Theory and Practice"
and was delivered before approximately 1000 attendees of the joint ACM
Computer Science / SIGCSE Conference.

Here's a story about John Impagliazzo's initial foray into SIGCSE:\

> I only got involved with SIGCSE in the mid-1980s when Joyce Currie
> Little dragged me to the Thursday evening celebration and made me
> (forced me to) dance with many of the SIGCSE dignitaries (Boots,
> Della, Nell, Joyce, etc.) at the SIGCSE (German) Symposium in
> Cincinnati. I happened to sit between Jim Miller (SIGCSE Bulletin EIC)
> and Nell Dale. The rest is history. Dick Austing had something to do
> with all this also.

We are thankful those SIGCSE dignitaries roped you in!