---
title: "1987 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

In 1987 the 18th Technical Symposium was held February 19-20 in St.
Louis, MO. The Conference Chair was Dan St. Clair (University of
Missouri at Rolla Graduate Center). A.K. Rigler (University of Missouri
at Rollla) served as Program Chair and Robert A. Barrett (Indiana
University Purdue University at Fort Wayne) was the BOF and Special
Sessions Chair. A total of 93 papers were accepted (a big jump from the
previous year's 51!).

The 1987 Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education was
awarded to **Niklaus Wirth** for the development of a series of
programming languages mainly for use in education chief among them
Pascal. These languages continue to have a profound effect on the
teaching of programming and on computer science in general.

We also held elections. Elected as Chair was Elliot Koffman (Temple
University); Vice-Chair was Nell Dale (University of Texas at Austin);
Secretary/Treasurer was Robert Cupper (Allegheny College). The Board of
Directors elected were the same from the previous board: Lillian Cassel
(Villanova University), A. Joe Turner (Clemson University), and Joyce
Currie Little (Towson State University).

Della Bonnette would have rotated to the Past President position. A
quick Google search reveals that she was on a SIGCSE panel in 2000
talking about ABET and is still involved with ABET/CSAB.

James Miller (University of Southern Mississippi) continued as the
Editor of the Bulletin. Sadly, 1987 also marked the end of the
"President's Notes" in the Bulletin which has been the source of a lot
of great information!