---
title: "1988 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The year is 1988 and the 19th Technical Symposium was held in Atlanta,
GA at the Westin Peachtree Plaza on February 25-26. The Conference Chair
was Betty Jehn (University of Dayton) and the Program Chair was Herb
Dershem (Hope College). Angela Shiflet (Wofford College) served as the
Panels Chair and Verlynda Dobbs (Wright State University) served as the
Treasurer for the conference.

Here\'s the breakdown for the submissions for the year:

Papers: 63 accepted, 171 submitted, acceptance rate of 37%. 15 panels
accepted 2 tutorials accepted:\
![Acceptance rates for 1988
Symposium](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/Symposium1988.jpg)

The 1988 Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education was
awarded to Rear Admiral Grace Murray Hopper for her pioneering work in
compiler design (Cobol), her efforts to oversee the Navy\'s efforts to
maintain uniformity in programming languages over two decades, and a
master teacher who reminded us to watch our nanoseconds.

We have this story from Elliot Koffman, then Chair of SIGCSE:

> I spent an unforgettable morning with Joyce (Little Currie)
> interviewing Grace Murray Hopper prior to her receiving the SIGCSE
> award for Outstanding Contributions to Computer Science Education. She
> was unable to attend the meeting to receive the award for health
> reasons but we played the video tape of the interview and it was very
> well received. Many copies of the tape were requested and sent to CS
> and Info Sci departments after the meeting.

Elliot thinks he has a copy of the Grace Murray Hopper interview video,
but is unable to get it to eject from his VCR. If someone else has an
old copy, please let me know - this is definitely something we would
want to transfer to digital to have for posterity!

In the Volume 20, Issue 2, June 1988 Bulletin was a financial report
that listed the SIGCSE membership at 2,521 members!