---
title: "1990 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

In 1990 we celebrated the 21st birthday of SIGCSE along with our 21st
Technical Symposium. We celebrated February 22-23 in Washington, DC at
the Sheraton Washington Hotel. The Conference theme was "From Generation
to Generation." The Conference Co-Chairs were Richard H. Austing
(University of Maryland) and Lillian N. Cassel (Villanova University).
It was held in conjunction with the ACM CSC (February 20-22) and Post
Symposium Workshops were held on February 24th. The Program Chair was
Gayle Yaverbaum (Temple University) for Papers. Harriet Taylor
(Louisiana State University) chaired Panels, Tutorials, Case Studies;
Joyce Currie Little (Towson State University) chaired Special Events;
Donald Gotterbarn (Wichita State) and James Swanson (New Hampshire
College) chaired the Birds of a Feather sessions; Dan Joyce (Villanova
University) headed up Publications and Local Arrangements were handled
by Elizabeth Adams (American University) and Pat Woodworth (Ithaca
College). This is the beginning of our current Conference Committee
format.

Here's part of the advertisement I found in the Bulletin (Volume 21,
Issue 4, Dec. 1989):\
![December 1989 Bulletin
](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/BulletinDec1989.jpg)\
There were 120 papers submitted, 52 accepted, for a 43.3% acceptance
rate. There were 17 panels, 3 tutorials and 3 workshops listed in the
final proceedings. A total of 756 people attended. This was the first
year of the Friday luncheon -- which we've had ever since at the
Technical Symposium.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to the **Curriculum \'68 Committee** (William F. Atchison, Chair;
Samuel D. Conte, John W. Hamblen, Thomas E. Hull, Thomas A. Keenan,
William B. Kehl, Edward J. McCluskey, Silvio O. Navarro, Werner C.
Rheinboldt, Earl J. Schweppe, William Viavant, David M. Young, Jr.)

For their work on the seminal document leading the way for the founding
of a multitude of computer science departments and providing guidance to
the formation of courses and production of textbooks.

There were two key notes: William Atchison gave one entitled "Revisting
our Roots: Curriculum '68 and Beyond" and Robert M Aiken and James Adams
gave one entitled "Coming of Age".

In the September, 1990 (Volume 22, Issue 3) of The Bulletin, the Karl V.
Karlstrom Award for the Outstanding Educator in Computer Science Award
was announced.

In the December, 1990 (Volume 22, Issue 4) of The Bulletin, the 1990 ACM
Scholastic Programming Contest Finals sponsored by AT&T Computer Systems
is highlighted including the winning teams (University of Otago New
Zealand won), the computing specifications (each team was provided with
its own AT&T 6386 WorkGroup System, only Pascal solutions allowed) and
the problems. Check out this link if you're interested.
