---
title: "1991 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

Did you know that the current ACM President was once a SIGCSE officer??
Yep!

Elections were held in 1991 and we elected the following: Nell Dale
(University of Texas at Austin) was elected Chair, Lillian (\"Boots\")
Cassel (Villanova University) was elected Vice-Chair; and Harriet Taylor
(Louisiana State University) was elected Secretary/Treasurer. Elected
Board members were Steve Cunningham (California State University,
Stanislaus), Cherri Pancake (Auburn University), and Angela Shiflet
(Wofford College). The Bulletin Editor continued to be James Miller
(University of Southern Mississippi).

The 22nd Technical Symposium held March 7-8, 1991 in San Antonio, TX at
the San Antonio Convention Center. The Conference Chair was Nell Dale
(University of Texas at Austin). The Program Chairs were John and Laurie
Werth (The University of Texas at Austin). Panels and Special Sessions
were chaired by Daniel Canas (Wake Forest University). Workshops were
chaired by Henry Walker (Grinnell College). Birds of a Feather were
chaired by Joyce Brennan (University of Texas at Austin). Treasurer for
the conference was Chris Edmondson-Yurkanan (University of Texas at
Austin) and Local Arrangements were handled by Suzy Gallagher
(University of Texas at Austin) and J. Paul Myers (Trinity University).\
![ Logo for 22nd Technical
Symposium](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/22ndTSlogo.png)\
There were 175 papers submitted, and 60 accepted for 34.3% acceptance
rate. There were 11 panels, 1 special session and 43 posters. Attendance
for the conference was 734.

The theme for the conference was "Education, Research, Industry: Keep
the Information Flowing." Key notes were given by David Gries (Cornell
University) and William Wulf (University of Virginia).

The Friday luncheon was held again, with over 400 people in attendance
(Bulletin, Volume 23, Issue 2, June 1991). This article, by out-going
chair Elliot Koffman also mentions the growth of the Saturday workshops.
The dues for the following year were increased to \$16.50. SIGCSE
Membership was, and still is, a bargain!

In the December, 1991 issue of The Bulletin (Volume 23, Issue 4), new
Chair Nell Dale noted that SIGCSE had the highest member retention rate
(92%) of any of the ACM SIGs! SIGCSE had approximately 2600 members.
This issue also includes detailed minutes of several Board Meetings.