---
title: "1992 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 23rd Technical Symposium held March 5-6, 1992 in Kansas City, MO
with the theme "Networking for Knowledge." The Conference Chair was
Maynard J. Mansfield (Indiana University - Purdue University at Fort
Wayne). The Program Chairs were Curt M. White (Indiana University-Purdue
University at Fort Wayne) and Janet Hartman (Illinois State University
Program). Cary Laxer (Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology) headed up the
Panels and Ken Modesitt (Western Kentucky University) oversaw Workshops.
Larry Cottrell (University of Central Florida) oversaw the Birds of a
Feather. Bob Barett (Indiana/Purdue University at Fort Wayne) was the
Treasurer and Anne Pierce (Georgia Southern University) handled
Evaluations.

There were 60 papers accepted along with 20 panels and 8 posters. There
were 702 attendees.

Keynotes were delivered by Daniel D. McCracken (City College of New
York) "On Programming Languages in the Computer Science Curriculum" and
Nell Dale (University of Texas at Austin) "My Vision is Your Vision."
Other interesting tidbits from this conference: there were 6 concurrent
sessions and the first "official" SIGCSE Social on Thursday night of the
conference occurred. Before this conference it was considered a private
party and not part of the official conference program. With this
conference it officially became part of the conference.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to Daniel McCracken, author of numerous best-selling books on
Fortran, COBOL and other languages and for their profound influence on
current computer science teachers.

You can listen to an interview with Dan through the Computing Educators
Oral History Project here:
<http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/mccrackenD-overview.html>.

The June 1992 issue of The Bulletin (Volume 24, Issue 2) contains
information on the 1991 ACM Scholastic Programming Contest Finals
(Stanford won). This was the first contest to break the "sneaker-net"
barrier (program submissions over a network vs. disks)!

In The December 1992 issue of The Bulletin (Volume 24, Issue 4, doi
10.1145/141837.141838) Chair Nell Dale presents the results of the 6
page membership survey conducted earlier in the year. Interesting to me
was that 49% of the responses indicated that SIGCSE should "actively
recruit high school teachers who teach APCS." The survey also included
questions about SIGCSE sponsoring activities outside the
US...foreshadowing of the ITiCSE conference! Also, check out the
responses to areas of research:\
![ Logo for 22nd Technical
Symposium](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/1992-research-areas.png)

Another topic brought up in the survey was what SIGCSE could do to add
validity to research in Computer Science Education. Evidence of our
growing pains.

Where were you in 1992? Are you represented here:\
![ Logo for 22nd Technical
Symposium](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/1992-demographics.jpg)