---
title: "1993 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

In the elections of 1993, Lillian \"Boots\" Cassel (Villanova
University) was elected Chair, G. Michael Schneider (Macalester College)
became Vice-Chair and Henry Walker (Grinnell College) became the
Secretary/Treasurer. Elected Board members were Janet Hartman (US Air
Force Academy), Margaret Reek (Rochester Institute of Technology) and,
J. Paul Myers (Trinity University in San Antonio). James Miller
(University of Southern Mississippi) continued at the Bulletin Editor.

The 24th Technical Symposium was held February 18-19, 1993 in
Indianapolis, IN at the Indianapolis Convention Center. Conference Chair
was Bruce J. Klein (Grand Valley State University). Program Chairs were
Cary Laxer and Frank Young (both from Rose-Hulman Institute of
Technology). Panels were overseen by Margaret Reek (Rochester Institute
of Technology). Workshops were handled by G. Michael Schneider
(Macalaster College) and Paul Carter (University of British Columbia).
Birds of a Feather were chaired by Kenneth Johnson (Grand Valley State
University). The conference Treasurer was Paul Jorgensen (Grand Valley
State University) and Evaluations were done by Paul Leidig (Grand Valley
State University). Anyone else notice the pattern between having a
Technical Symposium leadership position and then being elected to the
Board?

There were 204 papers submitted and 60 were accepted for 29.4%
acceptance rate (!). There were also 24 panels, 3 tutorials, and 11
workshops. Because of the increase in submissions, the Board voted to
expand the program to add an additional paper track for the following
year.

The keynotes that year were given by Alan Kay and Elliot Soloway.
Elliot\'s talk was entitled "Should Non-CS Majors Learn Programming?"
(How prophetic!)

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to Alan Kay (Apple Computer) for his contributions to Smalltalk
programming languages, and research development of computers usable by
children.

We might consider this to be the year of addressing female
underrepresentation in computing. There were many conference and
Bulletin articles on the subject.