---
title: "1994 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 25th Technical Symposium was held March 10-11, 1994 in Phoenix, AZ
at the Phoenix Convention Center. The Conference Chair was Robert Beck
(Villanova University) and the Program Chair was Don Goelman (Villanova
University). Panels were chaired by Elizabeth S. Adams (Hood College).
Tutorials and Workshops were chaired by Henry M. Walker (Grinnell
College). Birds of a Feather was chaired by Samuel J. Wiley (LaSalle
University). Posters were chaired by Nancy L. Hagelgans (Ursinus
College). Additional conference committee members were Carol Barner
(Glendale Community College) for Publicity, Dan Joyce (Villanova
University) for the Proceedings, John Lewis (Villanova University) was
the Treasurer and David C. Platt (Mesa Community College) handled Local
Arrangements.

A total of 75 papers were accepted along with 28 panels and 15 posters.
The keynotes were given by Norman E. Gibbs (Carnegie Mellon University)
talking about "Computer Science Education: Past, Present, Future" and
William H. Graves (UNC Chapel Hill) spoke on "Learning Productivity:
Medium and Message."

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to Norman Gibbs (Carnegie Mellon University) for his contribution
to Software Engineering Education, being the first director of the
Software Engineering Institute, and co-founder of the Liberal Arts
Computer Science Consortium.

From Vol 26, Issue 3, Sept. 1994 Bulletin contains the first mention of
"electronic messages sent to the SIGCSE members," the origination of our
listserv!