---
title: "1995 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The year is 1995 and our Board from 1993 continued as ACM allowed SIG
officers to extend their term another 2 years if they wished, without an
election. Our Board all wished to extend: Chair: Lillian \"Boots\"
Cassel (Villanova University); Vice-Chair: G. Michael Schneider
(Macalester College); Secretary/Treasurer: Henry Walker (Grinnell
College); Board: Janet Hartman (US Air Force Academy), Margaret Reek
(Rochester Institute of Technology) and, J. Paul Myers (Trinity
College). James Miller (University of Southern Mississippi) continued at
the Bulletin Editor.

The 26th Technical Symposium was held March 2-4 (3 days!), 1995 in
Nashville, TN at the Opryland Hotel Complex. The Conference Chairs were
Cary Laxer (Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology) and Frank Young
(Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology). Yes, that\'s right they were the
program chairs just 2 years earlier! They must have really enjoyed the
job given the fact they signed up again so quickly! The Program Chair
was Judith Gersting (Indiana University-Purdue University at
Indianapolis / University of Hawaii at Hilo). There were 215 papers
submitted with 75 accepted (35% acceptance rate) as well as 24 panels
and 3 tutorials.

An interesting fact from this Technical Symposium: SIGCSE members
wearing conference badges were constantly accosted by tourists because
they thought \"ACM\" was the Academy of Country Music!

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **Robert Aiken**, for being an outstanding mentor, advocate of
computer science and contributions to technology education both in the
United States and abroad.