---
title: "1996 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

From Vol 26, Issue 3, Sept. 1994 Bulletin:\
![Bulletin announcement of first
ITiCSE](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/BulletinSept1994.jpg)\
This year marks the beginning of the ITiCSE Conference (Innovation and
Technology in Computer Science Education). It has been held annually
since, usually in late June or early July. This conference brings
together delegates from all over the world to address pressing issues in
computing education. In addition to invited lectures, paper, panel,
poster and \"tips & techniques\" sessions, the conference provides
facilities and exposure for working groups of up to ten members, whose
final reports may be published by SIGCSE. Exhibits and tutorials are
also offered. Plus good food, good company and interesting locales. If
you have never been to an ITiCSE, do yourself a favor and go. You will
not regret it!

**The typical ITiCSE Schedule:**

-   Saturday Working groups arrive and meet
-   Sunday Working groups meet, delegates arrive, opening reception
-   Monday Conference opening, Keynote speech, followed by a full day of
    sessions
-   Tuesday A.M.: Plenary meeting followed by sessions
-   Tuesday P.M.: Tourist excursion(s)
-   Tuesday Evening: Conference Dinner
-   Wednesday Plenary meeting followed by a full day of sessions
-   Poster sessions at coffee breaks Monday through Wednesday.

The first ITiCSE was held in Barcelona, Spain on June 2-5, 1996. Lillian
N Cassel (Villanova University) and Jim Hightower (California State
University at Fullerton) were the Co-Conference Chairs. There were 46
papers accepted and there were 5 Working Groups. Here we have a picture
of the Working Group on Labs from Dan Joyce:\
![Working Group at ITiCSE
1996](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-WG-1996.jpg)

27th Technical Symposium was held February 15-18, 1996 in Philadelphia,
PA. Conference Chair: John Impagliazzo (Hofstra University); Program
Chair: Elizabeth Adams (Richard Stockton College). Panels Chair was Joan
S. Langdon (Bowie State University). Henry M. Walker (Grinnell College)
served as Seminars Chair. Workshops Chair was Margaret M. Reek
(Rochester Institute of Technology). Posters Chair was Nancy L.
Hagelgans (Ursinus College). Birds of a Feather Chair was Steve Drasner
(Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale). Karl J. Klee
(Jamestown Community College) was the Proceedings Editor and Local
Arrangements were handled by Elliot B. Koffman (Temple University). The
Evaluations Chair was Linda Hayden (Elizabeth City State College) and
Patricia A. Woodworth (Ithaca College) served as the Treasurer while
Mats Daniels (Uppsala University) was the International Coordinator.
There were 205 papers submitted and 78 accepted (38% acceptance rate).
23 panels were submitted with 16 accepted (69% acceptance rate). 13
seminars were submitted with 9 accepted (69% acceptance rate). 24
workshops submitted with 16 accepted (66% acceptance rate). There were
20 posters and 6 BOFs with 795 attendees.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **Nell Dale**, for being a prolific author for introductory
computer science textbooks and contributions to the field of computer
science education research. Her keynote was entitled \"Research in
Computer Science Education: Five Case Studies.\"

You can listen to an interview with Nell Dale through the Computing
Educators Oral History Project here:\
<http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/daleN-overview.html>

The other keynote at the Technical Symposium that year was presented by
John A.N. Lee: \"The Forgotten Tool of Computer Science
Education\--History\". Other interesting facts about the 1996 Technical
Symposium (thanks to John Impagliazzo):

-   It was the Launch of ACM 50th anniversary.
-   Extended workshops to Sunday morning.
-   First time BOFs were published in the proceedings.
-   Featured a chess match between Kasparov and IBM Deep Blue.
-   The reception on Thursday night featured carving stations and
    classical music - harp, violin, and piano.

There were also some unexpected difficulties associated with the
Symposium. A snow storm disrupted arrivals on Thursday and Friday. On
Tuesday, Symposium Chair John Impagliazzo was notified that Vice
President Al Gore was to do the symbolic start of the ENIAC. We were
told to evacuate three floors at the Marriott Wednesday and Thursday
without alternative housing for SIGCSE people. Panic mode set in!
Fortunately, Al Gore cancelled Wednesday morning. Phew! John shared his
hotel room with others due to flight cancellations because of the snow.
And Nell Dale had her first snowball fight with John, and won :-)

The proceedings for the conferences actually took up 2 issues of The
Bulletin (Volume 23, Issue 1, March 1996) for the Technical Symposium
Proceedings and Volume 28, Issue Special Issue for the ITiCSE '96
proceedings which included posters and demonstrations.