---
title: "1997 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The year is 1997 and the organization elected another Board which served
for 2 terms. The Chair was Bruce Klein (Grand Valley State University),
Vice-Chair was Margaret Reek (Rochester Institute of Technology), and
the Secretary/Treasurer was Henry M. Walker (Grinnell College). Elected
Board members were Barbara Boucher Owens (St. Edward\'s University),
Eric S. Roberts (Stanford University) and Gordon Davies (Open
University). Lillian N. (Boots) Cassel served on the Board as immediate
past Chair. John Impagliazzo (Hofstra University) continued as the
Bulletin Editor.

The 28th Technical Symposium was held February 27 - March 1, 1997 in San
Jose, CA. The Conference Chair was Curt White (Rosary College); Program
Co-Chairs were Carl Erickson (Grand Valley State University) and Bruce
Klein (Grand Valley State University). There were 177 papers submitted
with 75 accepted (42% acceptance rate) and 630 attendees.

This was the last SIGCSE to be held jointly with the CSC (25th CSC).
Thanks to Bob Beck for these notes and Vicki Almstrum for passing this
along.\
![ Notes about the 28nd Technical
Symposium](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/28thTS.jpg)

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **Andrew Tannenbaum** for seminal textbooks in networks,
computer organization and operating systems, outstanding wit and
educational leadership.

It was in 1997 that the **SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the
Computer Science Education Community** was established. This award
honors an individual who has a long history of volunteer service to the
computer science education community. The service is not limited to
SIGCSE service and may take many forms, such as professional society
leadership, conference organization, outreach efforts, editorial board
participation, or any of a number of other types of service to the
computer science education community. The award may recognize service at
any level (K-12, college, graduate, or continuing post-college).

The First Lifetime Service to Computer Science Education Award was
bestowed upon **Dick Austing** who was editor on several curriculum
recommendation documents in almost every area of computer science,
including Curriculum \'78, 2-year Task Force Report. He also served as
registrar for many SIGCSE conferences both before and after computerized
registration. He served as the SIGCSE Technical Symposium chair and was
a founding ACM Fellow.

You can listen to an interview with Dick through the Computing Educators
Oral History Project here:
<http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/austingR-overview.html>.

The 2nd ITiCSE conference was held in Uppsala, Sweden on June 2-4, 1997.
Lillian N. Cassel (Villanova University) and Mats Daniels (Uppsala
University) were the Conference Co-Chairs. There were 123 papers
submitted with 43 accepted (34.1% acceptance rate). There were 7 Working
Groups. Here\'s a picture of one of the working groups from Dan Joyce:\
![Working Group at ITiCSE
1997](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-WG-1997.jpg)\
As proof of the international growth of the organization, from the June
1997 Bulletin (Vol. 29, Issue 2):\
![Bulletin June
1997](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/BulletinJune1997-1.jpg)\
The other very exciting thing that happened in 1997, The Bulletin
officially acquired a new theme: Inroads, as well as the familiar format
we\'re now used to for Inroads, including the columns (Vol 29, Issue 4,
Dec. 1997):\
![Bulletin June
1997](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/BulletinJune1997-2.jpg)\
And we acquired Editor Emeriti (ibid):\
![Bulletin June
1997](../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/BulletinJune1997-3.jpg)
