---
title: "1998 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 29th Technical Symposium was held February 25 - March 1, 1998 in
Atlanta, GA. From The Bulletin Volume 30 Issue 1, March 1998:\
![Program Committee of the 29nd Technical
Symposium](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/29thTS-committee.jpg)\
![Submission statistics for the 29nd Technical
Symposium](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/29thTS-statistics.jpg)\
There were 901 attendees at the Technical Symposium in 1998.\
The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **William Wulf**, for his contributions to the advancement of
Computer Science Education in engineering.\
The Lifetime Service to Computer Science Education was awarded to
**Della Bonnette**, a past chair of SIGCSE and Technical Symposium chair
and editor of the SIGCSE bulletin, and for her leadership in
accreditation including chairing CSAC, years on CSAB Board of Directors,
ACM SIG Board, and area director.\
SIGCSE \'98 introduced several new features. As documented in the
welcome in the proceedings (The Bulletin Volume 30 Issue 1, March
1998):\
![Program Committee of the 29nd Technical
Symposium](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/29thTS-chair%20message.jpg)\
The conference activities were extended to Saturday, as many attendees
requested in the past. The SIGCSE Town Meeting was held on Saturday
morning, is a new event this year which gave everyone an opportunity to
express their thoughts on the future of computing education. The student
poster competition became part of the official program and specific
events for first time attendees of the conference were held to ensure
that they feel the camaraderie of the SIGCSE community. Workshops and
posters were also published (
<https://portalparts.acm.org/280000/274790/bm/backmatter.pdf?ip=174.74.49.67>).

On Wednesday, the day before the conference officially began, the first
ever Doctoral Consortium was held. Vicki Almstrum (University of Texas
at Austin) and Marian Petre (Open University) ran the first DC. The aims
of the Doctoral Consortium were:

-   To offer a friendly forum for students to discuss their work and
    receive constructive feedback.
-   To offer relevant information on issues important to doctoral
    candidates.
-   To nurture a community of researchers.

The Consortium was designed for Ph.D. students in any area of Computing
who plan to have a career in academia. All participants gave short
presentations of their research ideas or ongoing research. Small group
discussions, a round-table discussion, and presentations by specialists
in the field allowed participants to exchange ideas, explore relevant
issues, discuss strategies for completion, and prepare for the
challenges of an effective career in higher education. Some notable
attendees of that first Doctoral Consortium included Anders Berglund,
Christina Björkman, and Mats Daniels (Uppsala University), Lisa
Kaczmarczyk (Chemeketa Community College), and Laurie Williams
(University of Utah).

The 3rd ITiCSE was held at Dublin City University in Ireland, in
cooperation with SIGCUE and in conjunction with the 6th Annual
Conference on the Teaching of Computing. Gordon Davies (Open University)
and Mícheál O hÉigeartaigh (Dublin City University) were Conference
Co-Chairs. Mats Daniels (Uppsala University) was Program Chair and Dan
Joyce (Villanova University) was Working Groups Coordinator. There were
more than 200 attendees. There were 59 papers accepted and 5 Working
Groups. Thanks to Dan Joyce we have the following pictures:\
![ITiCSE 1998 Working Group
photos](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-WG-1998-1.jpg)\
![ITiCSE 1998 Working Group
photos](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-WG-1998-2.jpg)\
![ITiCSE 1998 Working Group
photos](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-WG-1998-3.jpg)\
Speaking of Working groups, there is a website created by Vicki Almstrum
( <http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/csed/iticse/iticse-by-year.html>) that
has a list of all the working groups from 1996 - 2003, including
pictures!

Inroads was officially introduced
(<https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=292422>) (
<https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=292422>). From Volume 30 Issue 2,
June 1998: \"SIGCSE has renewed its cooperation with NECC, but in a
limited capacity. NECA, the coordinating group for NECC, changed its
bylaws to permit organizational members in a non-voting capacity. We
have chosen to join in this way. It means that we still can participate
in NECC planning, while not being required to provide sessions or
speakers. ... The SIGCSE email distribution list has more than 600
recipients and traffic is quite heavy at times.\" In addition, the
Working Group reports from ITiCSE were published in the December 1998
issue of Inroads.