---
title: "2005 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 36th Technical Symposium was held February 23-27, 2005 in St. Louis,
MO. The Conference Chairs were Wanda Dann (Ithaca College) and Tom Naps
(University of Wisconsin at Oshkosh). The Program Chairs were Douglas
Baldwin (SUNY at Geneseo) and Paul Tymann (Rochester Institute of
Technology). There were 350 papers submitted with 104 accepted (32%
acceptance rate). There were 1245 attendees.

This is the year that SIGCSE began sponsoring the Roundtable for
Department Chairs.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **Kim Bruce**, for his innovative teaching methods, textbook
authorship, leadership in Liberal Arts Computer Science Consortium and
its curricular recommendations to Curriculum 91 and Curriculum 2001.

The Lifetime Service to Computer Science Education was awarded to
**Andrew McGettrick** for his outstanding service and direction to the
computing community in the UK and abroad. He is recognized for his
membership on the ACM Education Board, membership and significant
influence on CC2001 final report, author of the November 2000 Report on
Benchmark Levels for Computing.

The 8th Doctoral Consortium was held February 23rd in St. Louis, MO and
was led by Todd Stevens (Radford University) and Mark Guzdial (Georgia
Institute of Technology).

The 10th ITiCSE was held June 27-29, 2005 at Universidade Nova de
Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal. The Conference Co-Chairs were José C. Cunha
(Universidade Nova de Lisboa) and William M. Fleishman (Villanova
University). Program Co-Chairs were João M. Lourenço (Universidade Nova
de Lisboa) and Viera K. Proulx (Northeastern University). It is not
known how many papers were submitted, but 68 were accepted.

It was this year that the first International Conference on Computing
Education Research was held. Recognizing the need for a venue explicitly
for publishing Computing Education Research, SIGCSE sponsored this
venue. The first workshop was held October 1-2, 2005 at the University
of Washington in Seattle, WA. The founders of the conference, and its
first Conference Co-Chairs were Richard Anderson (University of
Washington), Sally Fincher (University of Kent), and Mark Guzdial
(Georgia Institute of Technology. There were 35 papers submitted with 16
being accepted (46% acceptance rate) and 56 people attended that first
meeting.

The Volume 37, Issue 2, June 2005 of Inroads (The Bulletin) mailing
included a wonderful CD entitled \"Pathways: Women and Computing\". This
CD brought together material from the June 2002 issue of Inroads,
articles from two issues of the IEEE Annals on the History of Computing,
two articles from the Communications of the ACM, and several other
papers. This CD represented SIGCSE\'s first venture into this medium
(CD).

From the same issue, three SIGCSE Committees were discussed:

-   The SIGCSE Committee on the Implementation of a Discrete Mathematics
    Course (on-going)
-   The SIGCSE Committee on Expanding the Women-in-Computing Community
    (on-going)
-   The SIGCSE Committee on Teaching Computer Science Research Methods
    (new)