---
title: SIGCSE Awards 2024 + new award, process & deadline
date: 2023-06-26
author: Brett Becker
---

The SIGCSE Board invites you to nominate candidates for one of the three annual ACM SIGCSE Awards for members of our community:

* SIGCSE Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education
* SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education Community
* **NEW!** SIGCSE Award for Broadening Participation in Computing

and to nominate a paper (NB: not a PERSON, a PAPER) for the

* SIGCSE Test of Time Award

For the Test of Time Award, the paper must have been published in a conference sponsored or co-sponsored by SIGCSE or in an ACM journal at least 10 years prior (i.e., for this, the 2024 award, the paper must have been published before December 31, 2013).

Please pay special attention to the following as the nomination process has been streamlined for 2024 and there are many subtle changes and a major change in how winners are selected. The following is only a summary. Details can be found at <https://sigcse.org/programs/awards/>. There you can also find a list of previous award winners and advice for assembling a strong nomination package.

* The deadline for submitting nominations this year is **September 1, 2023**. This is a month earlier than previous years. 
* In the past, unsuccessful nominations were automatically rolled-over for the next two years. However due to changes in the application and selection process, **you should check your 2022 and/or 2023 nominations to ensure that they comply with the revised requirements/process**. If they do not, or if there is any doubt, nominations should be made compliant and be re-submitted. For instance, what exactly constitutes a support letter, as well as the length requirements of nomination statements and support letters have been revised. This is also an opportunity to update your nomination(s) which is a good idea - the Board encourages prior nominations being updated, even if they are compliant with the new requirements. Going forward, the normal two-year roll-over will still apply. 
* Nominators are highly encouraged to **submit early**, allowing time to work submission issues out should they arise, particularly as there is a new submission process. 
* From this year, the SIGCSE Board will no longer select winners. **Award winners will now be selected by dedicated award committees appointed by the SIGCSE Board**. This is a departure from the past whereby the SIGCSE board selected award winners. This is part of the SIGCSE Board’s planned DEIA actions to be implemented by December 2023, specifically “Identify and implement strategies to minimize bias and optimize inclusion in our processes for eliciting nominations and selecting recipients of SIGCSE awards” – for more information see the SIGCSE Bulletin Vol. 55, No. 2 (April 2023).

While you are thinking about these nominations, you may also like to consider nominating someone to become a distinguished ACM member or ACM fellow, or self-nominating yourself for senior ACM membership. Information on the nomination processes for these awards can be found at: <https://awards.acm.org/advanced-member-grades>.
 
Please email me at the address below if you have any questions.

Thanks! 

Brett

---
Brett A. Becker\
ACM SIGCSE Vice Chair\
[brett.becker+sigcse-vice-chair@ucd.ie](mailto:brett.becker+sigcse-vice-chair@ucd.ie)
