---
title: SIGCSE Annual Report 2005
layout: page
---

July 2004 - June 2005\
Submitted by: Henry M. Walker, SIGCSE Chair

SIGCSE continues in its on-going mission to help address the needs
computing educators at all levels throughout the world. Thus, SIGCSE is
working to promote, strengthen, and expand its own programs and
projects; and SIGCSE seeks to collaborate with other organizations on
areas of common interest. For example, SIGCSE has continued its
interactions with SIGITE, ACM\'s Special Interest Group for Information
Technology Education, as both SIGs focus on separate, but overlapping,
areas of technical education.

Also, in January, ACM launched the Computer Science Teachers\'
Association (CSTA) with an emphasis on issues related to secondary
education. In working to establish new ties, the SIGCSE Board has named
its Vice Chair, Barbara Owens, as SIGCSE\'s formal liaison to CSTA, and
SIGCSE hopes that this will lead to creative avenues of collaboration.

**Conferences**\
This year, SIGCSE is planning for a new conference for International
Computing Education Research. The first conference, ICER 2005, will be
held on October 1-2 at the University of Washington under the leadership
of Sally Fincher, Richard Anderson, and Mark Guzdial. Details of this
conference may be found at <http://icer2005.cs.washington.edu/> . SIGCSE
also sponsors two other, well-established, annual conferences:

-   The 2005 SIGCSE Technical Symposium (SIGCSE 2005) was held on
    February 23-27, 2005, in St. Louis, MO USA. The conference set two
    significant SIGCSE records: 335 papers were submitted (up from about
    225 the previous several years), and attendance reached just
    over 1200. Much credit is due Symposium Co-chairs, Wanda Dann from
    Ithaca College and Tom Naps from the University of Wisconsin at
    Oshkosh.
-   The 2005 Innovations and Technology in Computer Science Education
    Conference (ITiCSE 2005) was held June 27-29, 2005, at the
    Universidade de Nova Lisboa in Portugal. This conference set similar
    records for this European conference: 225 papers submitted (up
    from150) and attendance reached 212. Many thanks to Conference and
    Program Co-Chairs, Jose Cunha from Universidade de Nova
    Lisboa,William Fleishman from Villanova University, Joao Lourenco
    from Universidade de Nova Lisboa, and Viera Proulx from Northeastern
    University.

Next year\'s conferences take place as follows:

-   SIGCSE 2006, March 1-5, Houston, TX USA under the leadership of
    Douglas Baldwin from SUNY Geneseo and Paul Tymann from the Rochester
    Institute of Technology. More about this conference may be found at
    [http://www.cs.rit.edu/\~sigcse06/](http://www.cs.rit.edu/%7Esigcse06/)
-   ITiCSE 2006, June 26-28, University of Bologna, Italy under the
    leadership of Renzo Devoli and Paola Salomoni from the University of
    Bologna and Michael Goldweber from Xavier University. For more
    information, see <http://www.iticse06.cs.unibo.it/>

In planning for the future, Robert Beck from Villanova University and
Scott Grissom from Grand Valley State University continue to provide
outstanding service as SIGCSE Symposium Site Coordinators, working with
ACM Headquarters in preparing materials for site bids, tabulating
proposals, and reviewing potential contracts. In recent years, Bruce
Klein from Grand Valley State University has served as a marvelous
resource in a similar role for advising for sites for ITiCSE. Looking
ahead, the SIGCSE Board has appointed Mats Daniels from Uppsala
University as ITiCSE Site Coordinator to complement Bruce\'s ongoing
efforts.

**Awards**\
Following past tradition, SIGCSE presented two awards this past year at
its Symposium in St. Louis.

-   Kim Bruce from Williams College, Williamstown, MA, USA, received
    SIGCSE\'s 2005 Award for Outstanding Contributions to Computer
    Science Education.
-   Andrew McGettrick from the University of Strathclyde, Glasgow,
    Scotland, SIGCSE\'s 2005 Award for Lifetime Service.

**Bulletin, *inroads***\
SIGCSE publishes *inroads* the SIGCSE Bulletin, quarterly. Two issues,
in March and September, distribute the Proceedings of its two major
conferences, its Symposium and its Conference on Innovation and
Integrating Technology in Computer Science Education, respectively.

The June and December issues provide a wonderful and diverse collection
of columns, editorials, and articles on computing education through the
insightful and dedicated leadership of Editor-in-Chief, John
Impagliazzo. In addition, John has coordinated the development of
SIGCSE\'s first CD, called *Pathways: Women and Computing*. This project
includes SIGCSE\'s special issue on the subject from June 2002, two
issues of related articles from the IEEE Annals on the History of
Computing, two papers on the subject from the Communications of the ACM,
and several additional materials. This CD is being distributed with the
June 2005 issue of the SIGCSE Bulletin \-- *inroads*. The SIGCSE
community is most grateful to John for his vision and efforts in guiding
inroads and for his remarkable dedication and development of this new
CD!

**Special Project Grants**\
SIGCSE has established a program to fund a limited number of special
projects to help its members investigate and introduce new ideas in the
learning and teaching of computing. SIGCSE invites its members to apply
for funds for this new endeavor. The maximum funding is \$5,000 USD per
proposal and the level of funding is subject to the quality of proposals
received and the availability of funds targeted for such projects.

Between March 2004 and February 2005, SIGCSE received thirteen proposals
and made five \"special project\" awards, to a total sum of \$17,967. In
2003-2004 (the first year) we received seventeen proposals and made
seven Special Project awards, to a total sum of \$20,800. Between March
2005 and July 2005, SIGCSE received nine proposals and made four Special
Project awards to a total sum of \$14,935. This is broadly comparable to
previous years.

Additional information on SIGCSE [Special Project Grants]({{"/programs/special/index.html" | absolute_url}}) may be found on the SIGCSE
website.

**Committee Initiative**\
SIGCSE continues to involve its membership in discussions of
significance to the computing-education community through its Committee
Initiative. Currently, three committees have been formed, each with a
specific focus:

-   The SIGCSE Committee on the Implementation of a One-Semester Course
    in Discrete Mathematics, with facilitators Douglas Baldwin from the
    State University of New York at Geneseo and William Marion from
    Valpariso State University. This committee has circulated several
    draft course syllabi, and is moving ahead in receiving feedback from
    committee members and the SIGCSE community.
-   The SIGCSE Committee on Expanding the Women-in-Computing Community,
    with facilitators Gloria Childress Townsend, DePauw University and
    Paula Gabbert, Furman University. This committee engages interested
    individuals, particularly at conferences. Projects include
    identifying \"recruiting and retaining women (R&R) in computing\"
    and highlighting success stories regarding R&R, and fostering
    communication with interested computing educators related to
    expanding the community of women in computing.
-   The SIGCSE Committee on the Teaching of Computer Science Research
    Methods, with facilitators Hillary Holz from California State
    University, East Bay and Anne Applin, Ithaca College. The short-term
    product of the committee is an ITiCSE Working Group proposal, which
    in turn will lead to the working group report.

Discussions continue with several individuals and groups regarding
possible new SIGCSE Committees. When dialog yields a subject of general
community interest, a clear focus, and 2-4 facilitators, a proposal can
go forward to the SIGCSE Board for the creation of a new SIGCSE
Committee. More information may be found through the SIGCSE Committee
Initiative links.

**Doctoral Consortium**\
SIGCSE continues to support its Doctoral Consortium, held each year on
the Wednesday before the SIGCSE Symposium in February or March. The
Doctoral Consortium provides a forum for graduate students to refine
directions for their research, receive feedback on their research ideas,
and develop a network of contacts for on-going discussions.

**Outreach Project**\
The SIGCSE Outreach Project supports the dissemination of outstanding
SIGCSE/ITiCSE presentations to other venues. The program is open to any
non-ACM conference holding \"In-Cooperation\" status with SIGCSE. Funds
are for travel support only (transportation, accommodation, meals), not
for registrations or honorariums. The level of funding is subject to the
quality of proposals received and the availability of funds. During the
2004-2005 academic year we were pleased to fund two proposals.

Additional information can be found through a link to the SIGCSE
[Outreach Project.]({{"/programs/speakers/index.html" | absolute_url}})

**Workshop for Department Chairs**\
Through the past year, the SIGCSE Board has worked with Frank Young of
Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology in developing the outline for a
workshop for department chairs. Initial plans call for a session to be
held on the Wednesday before the SIGCSE Symposium in March, just before
SIGCSE 2006. For the first workshop, Frank, Sue Fitzgerald from
Metropolitan State University and Sandra DeLoatch from Norfolk State
University will provide additional leadership for discussions and
sessions that will help chairs, particularly new department chairs,
consider organizational matters, planning, and the addressing of common
problems. SIGCSE hopes this workshop may become a regular event,
paralleling the ongoing Doctoral Consortium in providing ideas,
brainstorming, and developing contacts.

**Web Site/Internet Presence**\
SIGCSE has been privileged to have Eric Roberts from Stanford University
serve as moderator of its member listservs since 1997. Eric has been
particularly effective in this role, showing great insight, tact, and
wisdom in interacting with many individual groups in this capacity. With
Eric\'s shift in responsibilities to become the Co-Chair of ACM\'s
Education Board, he has stepped down as SIGCSE\'s listserv moderator.
The SIGCSE community expresses its great appreciation and thanks to Eric
for his wonderful work in this capacity over the past eight years.
Looking ahead, SIGCSE has appointed Jesse Heines from the University of
Massachusetts at Lowell and Frank Young from Rose-Hulman Institute of
Technology as its new listserv moderators.

Continuing in an on-going capacity, SIGCSE is fortunate that Scott
Grissom from Grand Valley State University is serving as Web master.
Scott has been a primary guide in the design and on-going maintenance of
the SIGCSE Web site at <http://www.sigcse.org>, and he deserves many
thanks for his service, guidance, and insights in this endeavor.
